example/image-classification/README.md, before:

# Image Classification

This fold contains examples for image classification. The goal of image
classifcation is to identify the objects contained in images. The following
[example](http://mxnet.io/tutorials/python/predict_image.html) shows
recognized object classes with corresponding probabilities using a pre-traind
model.

<img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/dmlc/web-data/master/mxnet/image/predict-dog.png" width="600"/>

## Contents

1. [Basic usages](#basic-usages)
2. [How to prepare datasets](#prepare-datasets)
3. [A List of pre-trained models](#pre-trained-models)
4. [How to fine-tune a dataset with a pre-trained model](#fine-tune-another-dataset)
5. [How to train with multiple machines](#distributed-training)
6. [Frequently asked questions](#faq)

## Basic Usages

Both python and R training programs are provided. Use `train_*.py` or
`train_*.R` to train a network on a particular dataset. For example:

- train a multilayer perception on the mnist dataset

  ```bash
  python train_mnist.py --network mlp
  ```

- train a 110-layer resnet on the cifar10 dataset with batch size 128 and GPU 0 and 1

  ```bash
  python train_cifar10.py --network resnet --num-layers 110 --batch-size 128 --gpus 0,1
  ```

There is a rich set of options, one can list them by passing `--help`. Some
commonly used options are listed as following:

| Argument                      | Comments                                 |
| ----------------------------- | ---------------------------------------- |
| `network`                     | The network to train, which is defined in [symbol/](https://github.com/dmlc/mxnet/tree/master/example/image-classification/symbols). Some networks may accept additional arguments, such as `--num-layers` is used to specify the number of layers in ResNet. |
| `data-train`, `data-val`      | The data for training and validation. It can be either a filename or a directory. For the latter, all files in the directory will be used. But if `--benchmark 1` is used, then there two arguments will be ignored. |
| `gpus`                        | The list of GPUs to use, such as `0` or `0,3,4,7`. If an empty string `''` is given, then we will use CPU. |
| `batch-size`                  | The batch size for SGD training. It specifies the number of examples used for each SGD iteration. If we use *k* GPUs, then each GPU will compute *batch_size/k* examples in each time. |
| `model`                       | The model name to save (and load). A model will be saved into two parts: `model-symbol.json` for the network definition and `model-n.params` for the parameters saved on epoch *n*. |
| `num-epochs`                  | The maximal number of epochs to train.   |
| `load-epoch`                  | If given integer *k*, then resume the training starting from epoch *k* with the model saved at the end of epoch *k-1*. Note that the training starts from epoch 0, and the model saved at the end of this epoch will be `model-0001.params`. |
| `lr`                          | The initial learning rate, namely for epoch 0. |
| `lr-factor`, `lr-step-epochs` | Reduce the learning rate on give epochs. For example, `--lr-factor .1 --lr-step-epochs 30,60` will reduce the learning rate by 0.1 on epoch 30, and then reduce it by 0.1 again on epoch 60. |

## Prepare Datasets

The recommended data format is
[RecordIO](http://mxnet.io/architecture/note_data_loading.html), which
concatenates multiple examples into seekable binary files for better read
efficiency. We provide a tool `im2rec.py` located in `tools/` to convert
individual images into `.rec` files.

For a simple tutorial, assume all images are stored as individual image files
such as `.png` or `.jpg`, and images belonging to the same class are placed in
the same directory. All these class directories are then in the same root
`img_data` directory. Our goal is to generate two files, `mydata_train.rec` for
training and `mydata_val.rec` for validation, and the former contains 95%
images.

We first prepare two `.lst` files, which consist of the labels and image paths
can be used for generating `rec` files.

```bash
python tools/im2rec.py --list True --recursive True --train-ratio 0.95 mydata img_data
```

Then we generate the `.rec` files. We resize the images such that the short edge
is at least 480px and save them with 95/100 quality. We also use 16 threads to
accelerate the packing.

```bash
python tools/im2rec.py --resize 480 --quality 95 --num-thread 16 mydata img_data
```

Hints:

- SSD is much faster than HDD when dealing with a large number of small
  files. (but HDD is good enough to read `rec` files).
  - We can use a cloud storage instance to prepare the data. For example, AWS
    `i2.4xlarge` provides 4 x 800 GB SSDs.
  - We can make a software RAID over multiple disks. For example, the following
    command create a RAID0 on 4 disks:

    ```bash
    sudo mdadm --create --verbose /dev/md0 --level=stripe --raid-devices=4 \
      /dev/nvme0n1 /dev/nvme1n1 /dev/nvme2n1 /dev/nvme3n1
    sudo mkfs /dev/md0
    ```
- Check `*.sh` scripts in the `data/` folder for more examples
- Use `im2rec.py --help` to see more options.

## Pre-trained Models

We provide multiple pre-trained models on various datasets. Use
[common/modelzone.py](https://github.com/dmlc/mxnet/blob/master/example/image-classification/common/modelzoo.py)
to download these models. These models can be used in any front-end language
MXNet supports. For example,
[the tutorial](http://mxnet.io/tutorials/python/predict_image.html) shows how
to classify an image with jupyter notebook.

### ImageNet 1K

It is first used by
[ImageNet challenge 2012](http://www.image-net.org/challenges/LSVRC/2012/),
which contains about 1.2M images with 1000 classes. To test these models, one
can use
[data/imagenet1k-val.sh](https://github.com/dmlc/mxnet/blob/master/example/image-classification/data/imagenet1k-val.sh)
to prepare the validation dataset and
[score.py](https://github.com/dmlc/mxnet/blob/master/example/image-classification/score.py)
to calculate the accuracy.

#### Single Center Crop Accuracy

| Model                          | Top-1  | Top-5  |
| ------------------------------ | ------ | ------ |
| `imagenet1k-inception-bn`      | 0.7245 | 0.9079 |
| `imagenet1k-resnet-18`         | 0.6858 | 0.8866 |
| `imagenet1k-resnet-34`         | 0.7244 | 0.9097 |
| `imagenet1k-resnet-50`         | 0.7527 | 0.9258 |
| `imagenet1k-resnet-101`        | 0.7684 | 0.9327 |
| `imagenet1k-resnet-152`        | 0.7653 | 0.9312 |
| `imagenet1k-resnext-50`        | 0.7689 | 0.9332 |
| `imagenet1k-resnext-101`       | 0.7828 | 0.9408 |
| `imagenet1k-resnext-101-64x4d` | 0.7911 | 0.9430 |

Note:
- our Resnet does not need to specify the RGB mean due the data batch
  normalization layer. While the inception models needs `--rgb-mean
  123.68,116.779,103.939`
- Resnet training logs are available at
  [tornadomeet/ResNet](https://github.com/tornadomeet/ResNet/tree/master/log)
- We warm up our Resnext-101-64x4d by training it with 1/100 and 1/10 of the
  base learning rate for the 1st and 2nd epoch. We use 3 p2.16xlarge instances
  with a batch size of 384 on each node with base lr set to 0.45, and decay step
  set at 50, 80, 110 epoch. After 133 epoch, we use one node to finetune, and
  turn off color and scale data augmentation, with lr reduced to 1.5e-04.

#### Speed and Memory Footprint:

Single K80 GPU with batch size 32.

| Model                     | memory (MB) | images/sec |
| ------------------------- | ----------- | ---------- |
| `imagenet1k-inception-bn` | 548         | 152        |
| `imagenet1k-resnet-18`    | 637         | 185        |
| `imagenet1k-resnet-34`    | 678         | 172        |
| `imagenet1k-resnet-50`    | 763         | 109        |
| `imagenet1k-resnet-101`   | 835         | 78         |
| `imagenet1k-resnet-152`   | 897         | 57         |

### Imagenet 11K

It is generated from the complete Imagenet dataset, namely  `fall11_whole.tar`
from
[http://www.image-net.org/download-images](http://www.image-net.org/download-images). In
addition, we removed classes which have less than 500 images, and then randomly
picked 50 images from each class as the validation set. As a result, this
dataset contains 11221 classes, with 11,797,630 images for training.

### Single Center Crop Accuracy

| Model                    | Top-1  |
| ------------------------ | ------ |
| `imagenet11k-resnet-152` | 0.4157 |

### Imagenet 11K + Place365 Challenge

This dataset combine the Imagenet 11K dataset with
[the Place 365 challenge dataset](http://places2.csail.mit.edu/download.html). The
latter contains 365 classes with 8 millions images. It results in a dataset with
around 20 million images.

### Single Center Crop Accuracy

| Model                               | Top-1  |
| ----------------------------------- | ------ |
| `imagenet11k-place365ch-resnet-50`  | 0.3112 |
| `imagenet11k-place365ch-resnet-152` | 0.3355 |


## Fine-tune another Dataset

Fine-tune refers training with parameters partially intialized with pre-trained
model. One can use
[fine-tune.py](https://github.com/dmlc/mxnet/blob/master/example/image-classification/fine-tune.py)
to train another dataset with pre-trained models listed above. For example,
first run
[data/caltech256.sh](https://github.com/dmlc/mxnet/blob/master/example/image-classification/data/caltech256.sh)
to download and prepare the
[Caltech-256](http://www.vision.caltech.edu/Image_Datasets/Caltech256/) dataset,
then fine tune it with `imagenet11k-resnet-152` by using 8 GPUs:

```bash
python fine-tune.py --pretrained-model imagenet11k-resnet-152 --gpus 0,1,2,3,4,5,6,7 \
    --data-train data/caltech256-train.rec --data-val data/caltech256-val.rec \
    --batch-size 128 --num-classes 256 --num-examples 15240
```

We obtained 87.3% top-1 validation accuracy, and the training log is available
[here](https://gist.github.com/mli/900b810258e2e0bc26fa606977a3b043#file-finetune-caltech265). See
the [python notebook](http://mxnet.io/how_to/finetune.html) for more
explanations.

## Distributed Training

The simplest way for distributing training is that both programs and data are
placed on the a shared filesystem such as
[NFS](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Network_File_System) and
[AWS EFS](https://aws.amazon.com/efs/), and there is one machine, we call it the
root machine, can ssh to all others. Assume we save the hostnames (or IPs) of
all machines will be used for training (might include the root machine) into a
file named `hosts`. The outputs of `cat hosts` may be

```bash
172.30.0.172
172.30.0.171
```

Now we can run the previous cifar10 training on two machines:

```bash
python ../../tools/launch.py -n 2 -H hosts \
    python train_cifar10.py --network resnet --num-layers 110 --batch-size 128 --gpus 0,1 \
    --kv-store dist_device_sync
```

It differs the previous command in two aspects. First, we use `launch.py` to
start the program, which creates two workers (given by `-n`) on the two machines
specified in `hosts` . Second, we change the `--kv-store` from the default
`device`, which means try to use GPU P2P, to `dist_device_sync`. The latter uses
distributed synchronized communication.

For more usages:

- One can use
  [benchmark.py](https://github.com/dmlc/mxnet/blob/master/example/image-classification/benchmark.py)
  to run distributed benchmarks (also for multiple GPUs with single machine)
- A how-to [tutorial](http://mxnet.io/how_to/multi_devices.html) with more
  explanation.
- A
  [blog](https://aws.amazon.com/blogs/compute/distributed-deep-learning-made-easy/)
  about setuping up a GPU cluster on AWS with cloud formation.

### Benchmark

To run benchmark on imagenet networks, use `--benchmark 1` as the argument to `train_imagenet.py`, An example is shown below:

```bash
python train_imagenet.py --benchmark 1 --gpus 0,1 --network inception-v3 --batch-size 64 \
  --image-shape 3,299,299 --num-epochs 1 --kv-store device
```

When running in benchmark mode, the script generates synthetic data of the given data shape and batch size.

The `benchmark.py` can be used to run a series of benchmarks against different image networks on a given set of workers and takes the following arguments:
- `--worker_file`: file that contains a list of worker hostnames or list of worker ip addresses that have passwordless ssh enabled.
- `--worker_count`: number of workers to run benchmark on.
- `--gpu_count`: number of gpus on each worker to use.
- `--networks`: one or more networks in the format network_name:batch_size:image_size.

The `benchmark.py` script runs benchmarks on variable number of gpus upto gpu_count starting from 1 gpu doubling the number of gpus in each run using `kv-store=device` and after that running on variable number of nodes on all gpus starting with 1 node upto `worker_count` doubling the number of nodes used in each run using `kv-store=dist_sync_device`.

An example to run the benchmark script is shown below with 8 workers and 16 gpus on each worker:
```
python benchmark.py --worker_file /opt/deeplearning/workers --worker_count 8 \
  --gpu_count 16 --networks 'inception-v3:32:299'
```

### Scalability Results

- Hardware: 16x AWS [P2.16xlarge](https://aws.amazon.com/ec2/instance-types/p2/)
with 256 GPUs in total.
- Software:
  [AWS Deep Learning AMI](https://aws.amazon.com/marketplace/pp/B01M0AXXQB) with
  CUDA 7.5 and CUDNN 5.1 installed

We fixed the batch size per GPU and then increase the number of
GPUs. Synchronized SGD is used, namely `--kv-store dist_device_sync`. The
following three CNNs (located in [symbol/](./symbol/)) are used

|  | `alexnet` | `inception-v3` | `resnet-152` |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| batch per GPU | 512 | 32 | 32 |
| model size (MB) | 203 | 95 | 240 |

Number of images proccessed per second is shown in the following table:

| #GPUs | `alexnet` | `inception-v3` | `resnet-152` |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| 1   | 457.07   | 30.4    | 20.08   |
| 2   | 870.43   | 59.61   | 38.76   |
| 4   | 1514.8   | 117.9   | 77.01   |
| 8   | 2852.5   | 233.39  | 153.07  |
| 16  | 4244.18  | 447.61  | 298.03  |
| 32  | 7945.57  | 882.57  | 595.53  |
| 64  | 15840.52 | 1761.24 | 1179.86 |
| 128 | 31334.88 | 3416.2  | 2333.47 |
| 256 | 61938.36 | 6660.98 | 4630.42 |

The following figure shows the speedup against a single GPU compared to the ideal scalability.

<img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/dmlc/web-data/master/mxnet/image/speedup-p2.png" width="600"/>

### Convergence

We show the convergence of training ResNet-152 on Imagenet 1K. The single machine with 8 GPUs results are from [Wei Wu](https://github.com/tornadomeet/ResNet/tree/master/log). We then trained the model using 10 machines, each machine has 8 GPUs, with the same hyper-parameters, except for we changed the total batch size from 8\*32 to 80\*32 and the initial learning rate to 0.5 instead of 0.1. The validation accuracy versus data epoch is shown as following. Both models have almost identical convergence rate.

<img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/dmlc/web-data/master/mxnet/image/dist_converge.png" width="600"/>

## FAQ

### Validation Accuracy

It is often straightforward to achieve a reasonable validation accuracy, but
sometimes matching the state-of-the-art numbers reported in the papers is
extremely hard. Here we list some aspects you may check to improve the
validation accuracy:

- Add more data argumentations, which often reduces the gap between training
  accuracy and validation accuracy. You may reduce the data argumentation close
  to end.
- Increase the learning rate and keep large learning rate for a long time. For
  example, in CIFAR10 we keep `lr=0.1` for 200 epochs and then reduce to 0.01.
- Do not use too large batch size, especially for batch size >> number of
  classes.

### Speed

First check the workload is not too small (e.g. LeNet on MNIST) and also batch
size is reasonable large. The performance bottleneck often happens in three
aspects:

- Reading data. Use the `--test-io 1` flag to check how many images can be pre-processed per second
  - Increase `--data-nthreads` (default is 4) to use more threads for data augmentation can help.
  - Data preprocessing is done by `opencv`.  If opencv is compiled from source
    codes, check if it is configured correctly.
  - Use `--benchmark 1` to use randomly generated data rather than real data.

Refer to [how_to/performance](http://mxnet.io/how_to/perf.html) for more details
about CPU, GPU and multi-device performance.

### Memory

An over sized batch size may result in out of GPU memory. The common error
message is `cudaMalloc failed: out of memory`. Now we can

- Reduce the batch size
- Set the environment variable `MXNET_BACKWARD_DO_MIRROR` to 1. It trades off
  computation for memory consumption. For example, with batch size 64,
  inception-v3 uses 10G memory and trains 30 image/sec on a single K80 GPU. When
  mirroring is enabled, with 10G GPU memory consumption, we can run inception-v3
  using batch size 128. The cost is that the speed reduces to 27 images/sec.

## History

- Nov 9, 2015: major refactor.
  - Organize files into sub-directories
  - Add [Resnet](https://github.com/tornadomeet/ResNet), pretrained models, and fine-tune scripts.
  - Update documents.
  - Move `../cpp/image-classification` into `./predict-cpp/`
- Oct 15, 2016: add R examples
- Nov 19, 2015: major refactor.
  - Various networks (Alex/VGG/Inception) on multiple dataset
    (MNIST/Cifar10/Imagenet)
  - Distributed training

Commit message:

benchmark.py modified (#7600)
benchmark script to include gluon

example/image-classification/README.md, after:

# Image Classification

This fold contains examples for image classification. The goal of image
classifcation is to identify the objects contained in images. The following
[example](http://mxnet.io/tutorials/python/predict_image.html) shows
recognized object classes with corresponding probabilities using a pre-traind
model.

<img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/dmlc/web-data/master/mxnet/image/predict-dog.png" width="600"/>

## Contents

1. [Basic usages](#basic-usages)
2. [How to prepare datasets](#prepare-datasets)
3. [A List of pre-trained models](#pre-trained-models)
4. [How to fine-tune a dataset with a pre-trained model](#fine-tune-another-dataset)
5. [How to train with multiple machines](#distributed-training)
6. [Frequently asked questions](#faq)

## Basic Usages

Both python and R training programs are provided. Use `train_*.py` or
`train_*.R` to train a network on a particular dataset. For example:

- train a multilayer perception on the mnist dataset

  ```bash
  python train_mnist.py --network mlp
  ```

- train a 110-layer resnet on the cifar10 dataset with batch size 128 and GPU 0 and 1

  ```bash
  python train_cifar10.py --network resnet --num-layers 110 --batch-size 128 --gpus 0,1
  ```

There is a rich set of options, one can list them by passing `--help`. Some
commonly used options are listed as following:

| Argument                      | Comments                                 |
| ----------------------------- | ---------------------------------------- |
| `network`                     | The network to train, which is defined in [symbol/](https://github.com/dmlc/mxnet/tree/master/example/image-classification/symbols). Some networks may accept additional arguments, such as `--num-layers` is used to specify the number of layers in ResNet. |
| `data-train`, `data-val`      | The data for training and validation. It can be either a filename or a directory. For the latter, all files in the directory will be used. But if `--benchmark 1` is used, then there two arguments will be ignored. |
| `gpus`                        | The list of GPUs to use, such as `0` or `0,3,4,7`. If an empty string `''` is given, then we will use CPU. |
| `batch-size`                  | The batch size for SGD training. It specifies the number of examples used for each SGD iteration. If we use *k* GPUs, then each GPU will compute *batch_size/k* examples in each time. |
| `model`                       | The model name to save (and load). A model will be saved into two parts: `model-symbol.json` for the network definition and `model-n.params` for the parameters saved on epoch *n*. |
| `num-epochs`                  | The maximal number of epochs to train.   |
| `load-epoch`                  | If given integer *k*, then resume the training starting from epoch *k* with the model saved at the end of epoch *k-1*. Note that the training starts from epoch 0, and the model saved at the end of this epoch will be `model-0001.params`. |
| `lr`                          | The initial learning rate, namely for epoch 0. |
| `lr-factor`, `lr-step-epochs` | Reduce the learning rate on give epochs. For example, `--lr-factor .1 --lr-step-epochs 30,60` will reduce the learning rate by 0.1 on epoch 30, and then reduce it by 0.1 again on epoch 60. |

## Prepare Datasets

The recommended data format is
[RecordIO](http://mxnet.io/architecture/note_data_loading.html), which
concatenates multiple examples into seekable binary files for better read
efficiency. We provide a tool `im2rec.py` located in `tools/` to convert
individual images into `.rec` files.

For a simple tutorial, assume all images are stored as individual image files
such as `.png` or `.jpg`, and images belonging to the same class are placed in
the same directory. All these class directories are then in the same root
`img_data` directory. Our goal is to generate two files, `mydata_train.rec` for
training and `mydata_val.rec` for validation, and the former contains 95%
images.

We first prepare two `.lst` files, which consist of the labels and image paths
can be used for generating `rec` files.

```bash
python tools/im2rec.py --list True --recursive True --train-ratio 0.95 mydata img_data
```

Then we generate the `.rec` files. We resize the images such that the short edge
is at least 480px and save them with 95/100 quality. We also use 16 threads to
accelerate the packing.

```bash
python tools/im2rec.py --resize 480 --quality 95 --num-thread 16 mydata img_data
```

Hints:

- SSD is much faster than HDD when dealing with a large number of small
  files. (but HDD is good enough to read `rec` files).
  - We can use a cloud storage instance to prepare the data. For example, AWS
    `i2.4xlarge` provides 4 x 800 GB SSDs.
  - We can make a software RAID over multiple disks. For example, the following
    command create a RAID0 on 4 disks:

    ```bash
    sudo mdadm --create --verbose /dev/md0 --level=stripe --raid-devices=4 \
      /dev/nvme0n1 /dev/nvme1n1 /dev/nvme2n1 /dev/nvme3n1
    sudo mkfs /dev/md0
    ```
- Check `*.sh` scripts in the `data/` folder for more examples
- Use `im2rec.py --help` to see more options.

## Pre-trained Models

We provide multiple pre-trained models on various datasets. Use
[common/modelzone.py](https://github.com/dmlc/mxnet/blob/master/example/image-classification/common/modelzoo.py)
to download these models. These models can be used in any front-end language
MXNet supports. For example,
[the tutorial](http://mxnet.io/tutorials/python/predict_image.html) shows how
to classify an image with jupyter notebook.

### ImageNet 1K

It is first used by
[ImageNet challenge 2012](http://www.image-net.org/challenges/LSVRC/2012/),
which contains about 1.2M images with 1000 classes. To test these models, one
can use
[data/imagenet1k-val.sh](https://github.com/dmlc/mxnet/blob/master/example/image-classification/data/imagenet1k-val.sh)
to prepare the validation dataset and
[score.py](https://github.com/dmlc/mxnet/blob/master/example/image-classification/score.py)
to calculate the accuracy.

#### Single Center Crop Accuracy

| Model                          | Top-1  | Top-5  |
| ------------------------------ | ------ | ------ |
| `imagenet1k-inception-bn`      | 0.7245 | 0.9079 |
| `imagenet1k-resnet-18`         | 0.6858 | 0.8866 |
| `imagenet1k-resnet-34`         | 0.7244 | 0.9097 |
| `imagenet1k-resnet-50`         | 0.7527 | 0.9258 |
| `imagenet1k-resnet-101`        | 0.7684 | 0.9327 |
| `imagenet1k-resnet-152`        | 0.7653 | 0.9312 |
| `imagenet1k-resnext-50`        | 0.7689 | 0.9332 |
| `imagenet1k-resnext-101`       | 0.7828 | 0.9408 |
| `imagenet1k-resnext-101-64x4d` | 0.7911 | 0.9430 |

Note:
- our Resnet does not need to specify the RGB mean due the data batch
  normalization layer. While the inception models needs `--rgb-mean
  123.68,116.779,103.939`
- Resnet training logs are available at
  [tornadomeet/ResNet](https://github.com/tornadomeet/ResNet/tree/master/log)
- We warm up our Resnext-101-64x4d by training it with 1/100 and 1/10 of the
  base learning rate for the 1st and 2nd epoch. We use 3 p2.16xlarge instances
  with a batch size of 384 on each node with base lr set to 0.45, and decay step
  set at 50, 80, 110 epoch. After 133 epoch, we use one node to finetune, and
  turn off color and scale data augmentation, with lr reduced to 1.5e-04.

#### Speed and Memory Footprint:

Single K80 GPU with batch size 32.

| Model                     | memory (MB) | images/sec |
| ------------------------- | ----------- | ---------- |
| `imagenet1k-inception-bn` | 548         | 152        |
| `imagenet1k-resnet-18`    | 637         | 185        |
| `imagenet1k-resnet-34`    | 678         | 172        |
| `imagenet1k-resnet-50`    | 763         | 109        |
| `imagenet1k-resnet-101`   | 835         | 78         |
| `imagenet1k-resnet-152`   | 897         | 57         |

### Imagenet 11K

It is generated from the complete Imagenet dataset, namely  `fall11_whole.tar`
from
[http://www.image-net.org/download-images](http://www.image-net.org/download-images). In
addition, we removed classes which have less than 500 images, and then randomly
picked 50 images from each class as the validation set. As a result, this
dataset contains 11221 classes, with 11,797,630 images for training.

### Single Center Crop Accuracy

| Model                    | Top-1  |
| ------------------------ | ------ |
| `imagenet11k-resnet-152` | 0.4157 |

### Imagenet 11K + Place365 Challenge

This dataset combine the Imagenet 11K dataset with
[the Place 365 challenge dataset](http://places2.csail.mit.edu/download.html). The
latter contains 365 classes with 8 millions images. It results in a dataset with
around 20 million images.

### Single Center Crop Accuracy

| Model                               | Top-1  |
| ----------------------------------- | ------ |
| `imagenet11k-place365ch-resnet-50`  | 0.3112 |
| `imagenet11k-place365ch-resnet-152` | 0.3355 |


## Fine-tune another Dataset

Fine-tune refers training with parameters partially intialized with pre-trained
model. One can use
[fine-tune.py](https://github.com/dmlc/mxnet/blob/master/example/image-classification/fine-tune.py)
to train another dataset with pre-trained models listed above. For example,
first run
[data/caltech256.sh](https://github.com/dmlc/mxnet/blob/master/example/image-classification/data/caltech256.sh)
to download and prepare the
[Caltech-256](http://www.vision.caltech.edu/Image_Datasets/Caltech256/) dataset,
then fine tune it with `imagenet11k-resnet-152` by using 8 GPUs:

```bash
python fine-tune.py --pretrained-model imagenet11k-resnet-152 --gpus 0,1,2,3,4,5,6,7 \
    --data-train data/caltech256-train.rec --data-val data/caltech256-val.rec \
    --batch-size 128 --num-classes 256 --num-examples 15240
```

We obtained 87.3% top-1 validation accuracy, and the training log is available
[here](https://gist.github.com/mli/900b810258e2e0bc26fa606977a3b043#file-finetune-caltech265). See
the [python notebook](http://mxnet.io/how_to/finetune.html) for more
explanations.

## Distributed Training

The simplest way for distributing training is that both programs and data are
placed on the a shared filesystem such as
[NFS](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Network_File_System) and
[AWS EFS](https://aws.amazon.com/efs/), and there is one machine, we call it the
root machine, can ssh to all others. Assume we save the hostnames (or IPs) of
all machines will be used for training (might include the root machine) into a
file named `hosts`. The outputs of `cat hosts` may be

```bash
172.30.0.172
172.30.0.171
```

Now we can run the previous cifar10 training on two machines:

```bash
python ../../tools/launch.py -n 2 -H hosts \
    python train_cifar10.py --network resnet --num-layers 110 --batch-size 128 --gpus 0,1 \
    --kv-store dist_device_sync
```

It differs the previous command in two aspects. First, we use `launch.py` to
start the program, which creates two workers (given by `-n`) on the two machines
specified in `hosts` . Second, we change the `--kv-store` from the default
`device`, which means try to use GPU P2P, to `dist_device_sync`. The latter uses
distributed synchronized communication.

For more usages:

- One can use
  [benchmark.py](https://github.com/dmlc/mxnet/blob/master/example/image-classification/benchmark.py)
  to run distributed benchmarks (also for multiple GPUs with single machine)
- A how-to [tutorial](http://mxnet.io/how_to/multi_devices.html) with more
  explanation.
- A
  [blog](https://aws.amazon.com/blogs/compute/distributed-deep-learning-made-easy/)
  about setuping up a GPU cluster on AWS with cloud formation.

### Benchmark

To run benchmark on imagenet networks, use `--benchmark 1` as the argument to `train_imagenet.py`, An example is shown below:

```bash
python train_imagenet.py --benchmark 1 --gpus 0,1 --network inception-v3 --batch-size 64 \
  --image-shape 3,299,299 --num-epochs 1 --kv-store device
```

When running in benchmark mode, the script generates synthetic data of the given data shape and batch size.

The `benchmark.py` can be used to run a series of benchmarks against different image networks on a given set of workers and takes the following arguments:
- `--worker_file`: file that contains a list of worker hostnames or list of worker ip addresses that have passwordless ssh enabled.
- `--worker_count`: number of workers to run benchmark on.
- `--gpu_count`: number of gpus on each worker to use.
- `--networks`: one or more networks in the format mode:network_name:batch_size:image_size. (Use `native` mode for imagenet benchmarks and any of the symbolic/imperative/hybrid for gluon benchmarks). Be sure to use appropriate models according to the mode you are using.

The `benchmark.py` script runs benchmarks on variable number of gpus upto gpu_count starting from 1 gpu doubling the number of gpus in each run using `kv-store=device` and after that running on variable number of nodes on all gpus starting with 1 node upto `worker_count` doubling the number of nodes used in each run using `kv-store=dist_sync_device`.

An example to run the benchmark script is shown below with 8 workers and 16 gpus on each worker:
```
python benchmark.py --worker_file /opt/deeplearning/workers --worker_count 8 \
  --gpu_count 16 --networks 'native:inception-v3:32:299'
```

Additionally, this script also runs [Gluon vision models](mxnet/python/mxnet/gluon/model_zoo/model_store.py) benchmarking [image_classification](mxnet/example/gluon/image_classification.py) script
for all three symbolic, imperative and hybrid paradigms using synthetic data.
An example to run the benchmark script is shown below with 8 workers and 16 gpus on each worker:
```
python benchmark.py --worker_file /opt/deeplearning/workers --worker_count 8 \
  --gpu_count 16 --networks 'imperative:resnet152_v1:32:299'
```

To run benchmark on gluon vision models, use `--benchmark 1`  as the argument to `image_classification.py`, An example is shown below:
```
python ../gluon/image_classification.py --dataset dummy --gpus 2 --epochs 1 --benchmark --mode imperative \
  --model resnet152_v1 --batch-size 32 --log-interval 1 --kv-store dist_sync_device
```

### Scalability Results

- Hardware: 16x AWS [P2.16xlarge](https://aws.amazon.com/ec2/instance-types/p2/)
with 256 GPUs in total.
- Software:
  [AWS Deep Learning AMI](https://aws.amazon.com/marketplace/pp/B01M0AXXQB) with
  CUDA 7.5 and CUDNN 5.1 installed

We fixed the batch size per GPU and then increase the number of
GPUs. Synchronized SGD is used, namely `--kv-store dist_device_sync`. The
following three CNNs (located in [symbol/](./symbol/)) are used

|  | `alexnet` | `inception-v3` | `resnet-152` |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| batch per GPU | 512 | 32 | 32 |
| model size (MB) | 203 | 95 | 240 |

Number of images proccessed per second is shown in the following table:

| #GPUs | `alexnet` | `inception-v3` | `resnet-152` |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| 1   | 457.07   | 30.4    | 20.08   |
| 2   | 870.43   | 59.61   | 38.76   |
| 4   | 1514.8   | 117.9   | 77.01   |
| 8   | 2852.5   | 233.39  | 153.07  |
| 16  | 4244.18  | 447.61  | 298.03  |
| 32  | 7945.57  | 882.57  | 595.53  |
| 64  | 15840.52 | 1761.24 | 1179.86 |
| 128 | 31334.88 | 3416.2  | 2333.47 |
| 256 | 61938.36 | 6660.98 | 4630.42 |

The following figure shows the speedup against a single GPU compared to the ideal scalability.

<img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/dmlc/web-data/master/mxnet/image/speedup-p2.png" width="600"/>

### Convergence

We show the convergence of training ResNet-152 on Imagenet 1K. The single machine with 8 GPUs results are from [Wei Wu](https://github.com/tornadomeet/ResNet/tree/master/log). We then trained the model using 10 machines, each machine has 8 GPUs, with the same hyper-parameters, except for we changed the total batch size from 8\*32 to 80\*32 and the initial learning rate to 0.5 instead of 0.1. The validation accuracy versus data epoch is shown as following. Both models have almost identical convergence rate.

<img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/dmlc/web-data/master/mxnet/image/dist_converge.png" width="600"/>

## FAQ

### Validation Accuracy

It is often straightforward to achieve a reasonable validation accuracy, but
sometimes matching the state-of-the-art numbers reported in the papers is
extremely hard. Here we list some aspects you may check to improve the
validation accuracy:

- Add more data argumentations, which often reduces the gap between training
  accuracy and validation accuracy. You may reduce the data argumentation close
  to end.
- Increase the learning rate and keep large learning rate for a long time. For
  example, in CIFAR10 we keep `lr=0.1` for 200 epochs and then reduce to 0.01.
- Do not use too large batch size, especially for batch size >> number of
  classes.

### Speed

First check the workload is not too small (e.g. LeNet on MNIST) and also batch
size is reasonable large. The performance bottleneck often happens in three
aspects:

- Reading data. Use the `--test-io 1` flag to check how many images can be pre-processed per second
  - Increase `--data-nthreads` (default is 4) to use more threads for data augmentation can help.
  - Data preprocessing is done by `opencv`.  If opencv is compiled from source
    codes, check if it is configured correctly.
  - Use `--benchmark 1` to use randomly generated data rather than real data.

Refer to [how_to/performance](http://mxnet.io/how_to/perf.html) for more details
about CPU, GPU and multi-device performance.

### Memory

An over sized batch size may result in out of GPU memory. The common error
message is `cudaMalloc failed: out of memory`. Now we can

- Reduce the batch size
- Set the environment variable `MXNET_BACKWARD_DO_MIRROR` to 1. It trades off
  computation for memory consumption. For example, with batch size 64,
  inception-v3 uses 10G memory and trains 30 image/sec on a single K80 GPU. When
  mirroring is enabled, with 10G GPU memory consumption, we can run inception-v3
  using batch size 128. The cost is that the speed reduces to 27 images/sec.

## History

- Nov 9, 2015: major refactor.
  - Organize files into sub-directories
  - Add [Resnet](https://github.com/tornadomeet/ResNet), pretrained models, and fine-tune scripts.
  - Update documents.
  - Move `../cpp/image-classification` into `./predict-cpp/`
- Oct 15, 2016: add R examples
- Nov 19, 2015: major refactor.
  - Various networks (Alex/VGG/Inception) on multiple dataset
    (MNIST/Cifar10/Imagenet)
  - Distributed training
